# StudyTemplate

+++{"part": "abstract"}
This resource provides a comprehensive and modular framework for designing, conducting, and analyzing electroencephalography (EEG) studies. Whether you are a seasoned researcher or a novice in the field of neuroscience, this template aims to streamline the process of setting up EEG experiments, ensuring reproducibility, and facilitating data analysis.
+++

Particular emphasis has been given to:

* Modular design to allow for any study to drop in files straight from the amplifier
* Pre-configured project layouts in accordance with BIDS [@pernet2019eeg]
* Providing links to training material to improve technical skills
* Constructing visualizations which let researchers explore the data

## Different ways to interact with this living book

### EEG StudyTemplate in your browser

This NeuroLibre living book is designed to get you started with the basics of EEG analysis with zero installation. All the runtime and code dependencies needed to run the executable material in this living book are taken care of, so you can just start reading and running the code without leaving your web browser.

Nevertheless, the benefits of EEG StudyTemplate are not limited to this turnkey experience. True to its, name we designed this resource as a template for EEG studies. This means that you can use it as a starting point for your own projects, and modify it to suit your research needs.

To that end, being able to re-generate the outputs of the notebooks in this living book _in your own computer_ is key. 

### EEG StudyTemplate in your computer

There are two ways to do this:

1. **Using the Docker container generated by this template**
   * Provides a pre-configured environment with all dependencies
   * Ensures consistent behavior across different systems

2. **Manual environment setup**
   * Requires manual installation of Python, python packages, and some external dependencies.
   * More flexible but requires more technical knowledge

#### The Docker way 

The docker image of this living book is archived at (TODO: DOI). Provided that you have Docker engine installed, you can follow the instruction on the Zenodo page to see how you can locally run the Jupyter Lab through a container! 

To include your own EEG data, mount additional volumes using the `-v` flag.
🚧 TODO: Explain more.

#### The manual way

##### Minimum Requirements

This project assumes that you are running at least Python `version 3.11`. This can be checked by running the following code snippet inside of an interpreter.

```python
import sys
print(sys.version)
```

This should return a string similar to `3.11.0rc1 (main, Aug 12 2022, 10:02:14) [GCC 11.2.0]`.

If not, follow your platform's instructions for adding new versions of Python.

If you are unable or unfamiliar with this, please [contact us](mailto:eegnet@email.com) or open an issue [here](repo_address).

##### The First Step

You will need `Jupyter Lab` installed. This typically comes with popular Python distributions like Anaconda or Miniconda. Otherwise, you will need to install it yourself. Our primary recommendation to do so is to follow the instructions from the [Python Software Carpentry](https://software-carpentry.org/lessons/).

Alternatively, you can simply follow the following instructions:

1. Using pip (Python package manager):
   ```bash
   pip install jupyterlab
   ```

2. Launch Jupyter Lab by running:
   ```bash
   jupyter lab
   ```

This will start the server and display several URLs in your terminal. Copy any of the URLs that start with `http://localhost` and paste it into your web browser to access the Jupyter Lab interface.

##### The Next Step

You need Python packages listed as a dependency in this repository. To do that, first, clone this repository to your computer:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Andesha/StudyTemplate.git
```

Then, navigate to the repository's root directory and install the dependencies:

:::{admonition} If you are a Ubuntu user
:class: dropdown

```bash
cd <downloaded_directory>/StudyTemplate
xargs sudo apt-get install -y < binder/apt.txt
```
:::

```bash
cd <downloaded_directory>/StudyTemplate
pip install -r binder/requirements.txt
```

##### Downloading the example dataset

TODO:  🚧

```bash
repo2data 
```

:::{seealso} EEG Fundamentals and Theoretical Prerequisites

If you are brand new to EEG analysis and are seeking the fundamentals from a theoretical standpoint it is suggested to start with the following list

* An Introduction to the Event-Related Potential Technique, 2nd Edition (2014, MIT Press) Steven J. Luck

:::

:::{seealso} Technical Skill Prerequisites

The following is a list of must-read materials and course work for users starting their journey from scratch:

1. [Software Carpentry Shell](https://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/)
    * Teaches pathing and commmon terminal use
2. [Software Carpentry Python](https://swcarpentry.github.io/python-novice-inflammation/)
    * Basic Python introduction involving files, plotting, and scripting
3. [BIDS Specification](https://bids-specification.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
    * Contains the definitions and assumptions for how studies should be layed out
4. [Introduction to Git](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/)
    * Version control principles and how to download most open source projects
5. [MNE Python](https://mne.tools/stable/index.html)
    * Main platform for interacting with data

:::

## Current Notebooks

Below is a list of notebooks in a rough ordering of their intended use.

1. `test_environment`
    * Installs necessary packages and does some basic plotting to verify that things are working
2. `explore_source` 
    * Inspects a bunch of features of a single source recording to determine quality and necessary steps for initialization
3. `init_bids_study`
    * Walks through the steps of building a BIDS study from a list of source files
4. `quick_clean`
    * Performs very basic artifact detection on all bids subjects in the project before saving them to a derivative
5. `erp_study`
    * Based on conditions, performs a traditional ERP study on all subjects in the derivatives


:::{admonition}  🚧 TODO List
:class: dropdown

* Provide some sort of graphic for skills hierarchy
* Provide some sort of graphic for notebook flow
:::


+++{"part": "acknowledgements"}
This work has been supported by **[EEGNet.org](https://eegnet.org)** and Brain Canada, in partnership with Brock University, Laval-CERVO and the McGill Centre for Integrative Neuroscience ([MCIN](https://mcin.ca)). 
Thanks also to the **Canadian Open Neuroscience Platform** [CONP.ca](https://conp.ca) for additional guidance
+++
